README.md, before:

# ScalaWordNet

[![Flattr this](http://api.flattr.com/button/flattr-badge-large.png)](https://flattr.com/submit/auto?user_id=sciss&url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FSciss%2FScalaWordNet&title=ScalaWordNet&language=Scala&tags=github&category=software)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Sciss/ScalaWordNet.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Sciss/ScalaWordNet)

## statement

Scala bindings around [WordNet](http://wordnet.princeton.edu), [WS4j](https://github.com/Sciss/ws4j),
and [JWNL](http://jwordnet.sourceforge.net/).
The original author was Sujit Pal (Scalcium), adapted by Hanns Holger Rutz
to be more idiomatic Scala and less Python. (C)opyright 2015&ndash;2016,
all rights reserved. Published under the GNU General Public License v2+.

The file `WordNetTest.scala` gives an overview of the API.

Background:

- [NLTK-like Wordnet Interface in Scala](http://sujitpal.blogspot.co.at/2014/04/nltk-like-wordnet-interface-in-scala.html)
- [Scalcium](https://github.com/sujitpal/scalcium)
- [NLTK HowTo](http://www.nltk.org/howto/wordnet.html)
- [How is WordNet organized?](http://shiffman.net/teaching/a2z_2008/wordnet/)

## Installing the database

Because of the combination of WS4j (jawjaw) and JWNL, currently the WordNet database must 
be present in two different forms. Hopefully this will be resolved in a future version.

### WordNet-3.0

Download the original WordNet package from http://wordnet.princeton.edu/wordnet/download/ and 
put a symlink to this into `link`.

### wnjpn.db

In addition to WordNet-3.0, also the English-Japanese database must be installed. This
is because jawjaw and WS4j apparently rely on that SQL database.

Download http://nlpwww.nict.go.jp/wn-ja/data/1.1/wnjpn.db.gz
and unzip the `.db` file into the `config` directory.

There is perhaps an alternative, English only, version here:
http://sourceforge.net/projects/wnsql/files/wnsql3/sqlite/3.1/sqlite-31.db.zip/download
(The format doesn't seem to be compatible with Jawjaw)

## contributing

Please see the file [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## TO-DO

We need a better shortest path. Have a look at:

- Ferlež, Jure, and Matjaž Gams. "Shortest-Path Semantic Distance Measure in WordNet v2.0." Information Society in 2004 (2004): 381.

Commit message:

try to make travis happy - download-database

README.md, after:

# ScalaWordNet

[![Flattr this](http://api.flattr.com/button/flattr-badge-large.png)](https://flattr.com/submit/auto?user_id=sciss&url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FSciss%2FScalaWordNet&title=ScalaWordNet&language=Scala&tags=github&category=software)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Sciss/ScalaWordNet.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Sciss/ScalaWordNet)

## statement

Scala bindings around [WordNet](http://wordnet.princeton.edu), [WS4j](https://github.com/Sciss/ws4j),
and [JWNL](http://jwordnet.sourceforge.net/).
The original author was Sujit Pal (Scalcium), adapted by Hanns Holger Rutz
to be more idiomatic Scala and less Python. (C)opyright 2015&ndash;2016,
all rights reserved. Published under the GNU General Public License v2+.

The file `WordNetTest.scala` gives an overview of the API.

Background:

- [NLTK-like Wordnet Interface in Scala](http://sujitpal.blogspot.co.at/2014/04/nltk-like-wordnet-interface-in-scala.html)
- [Scalcium](https://github.com/sujitpal/scalcium)
- [NLTK HowTo](http://www.nltk.org/howto/wordnet.html)
- [How is WordNet organized?](http://shiffman.net/teaching/a2z_2008/wordnet/)

## Installing the database

Because of the combination of WS4j (jawjaw) and JWNL, currently the WordNet database must 
be present in two different forms. Hopefully this will be resolved in a future version.

As a shortcut, you can simply run `sbt download-database` instead of the following manual steps.

### WordNet-3.0

Download the original WordNet package from http://wordnet.princeton.edu/wordnet/download/ and 
put a symlink to this into `link`.

### wnjpn.db

In addition to WordNet-3.0, also the English-Japanese database must be installed. This
is because jawjaw and WS4j apparently rely on that SQL database.

Download http://nlpwww.nict.go.jp/wn-ja/data/1.1/wnjpn.db.gz
and unzip the `.db` file into the `config` directory.

There is perhaps an alternative, English only, version here:
http://sourceforge.net/projects/wnsql/files/wnsql3/sqlite/3.1/sqlite-31.db.zip/download
(The format doesn't seem to be compatible with Jawjaw)

## contributing

Please see the file [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## TO-DO

We need a better shortest path. Have a look at:

- Ferlež, Jure, and Matjaž Gams. "Shortest-Path Semantic Distance Measure in WordNet v2.0." Information Society in 2004 (2004): 381.
